(whooshing)
All right, this video's gonna be
about local state and context in React.
So let's just understand what those are real quick.
So local state in a React application
is state that exists just inside of the browser.
A lot of our state so far exists in the database
and it gets sent over.
And we have done a little bit of local state
and that is when we use our forms
and you type into those input boxes,
that stuff is mirrored to state and it's only there
until you actually send it off to the backend.
Another piece of local state that we need is this cart needs
to be either open or closed.
It's probably the most imply local state ever,
which is just gonna be is it open?
Yes or no? True or false?
And that state needs to be changed
in a number of different places, right?
Like right now, I need to be able
to close the cart when I'm in the cart itself.
But then I need to be able to open the cart
when the cart is closed.
So there can't be a button inside the cart to open it.
And so we wanna put like maybe a button
in our navigation
or maybe you also want it to open the cart
when somebody adds an item to their cart, right?
So you can show them that it's in here.
So when you click on the add to cart.
So in that case, the piece of state needs to exist
in the cart but the updater function
that will turn the cart open Boolean to true or false,
that needs to exist wherever we want it in our application.
So with that functionality,
you generally in React need to define that functionality
at a very high level and then you can pass it down
because if I go into my header right here
and I define that functionality inside of this cart,
there's no way for me to get
that functionality up a couple levels,
over a couple levels to the actual page,
down a couple levels to maybe this product component
and then get it in there.
So what we do with local state
is we put it in what's called context.
And context in React allows us to define data,
which is local state or really anything
and functionality, which is updater functions,
at a very high level.
In our case, it's gonna be at the top of our application.
And then you can access that data and functionality
at much lower levels without having
to pass it down via props
like we normally would pass data in.
Passing via props is a great way to get data
and functionality into a component
but it's really hard to do that
when your component is say seven or eight levels deep.
You have to pass it down all the way.
So that's exactly what we're gonna be doing right now.
And we're going to be doing that
in a file called cartState.
So we can stick that either in a,
it is technically going to be both a component,
which is a provider
and it's going to be a custom hook as well.
So we can stick that into components
but to me it seems more like a lib thing.
It's more just custom JavaScript.
So we'll put it in there.
And we're going to call that cartState.
cartState.js.
So there's gonna be two parts to creating our cartState.
We have one thing that's called a provider
and the provider's gonna live at a high level
in your application.
And the provider will store things like pieces of states,
as well as updater functions.
And then in order to access those pieces of states
and updater functions anywhere else in your application,
you call a consumer.
And the consumer is able to talk to the provider
and get those things from the provider
without having a direct link to them.
So it sort of just floats through the air
and they somehow can talk to each other
without having to have props or something like that.
So we are going to make our own provider
called the cartState provider
that has all that data in it.
So first thing is we need to create a context.
So I'll say const LocalStateContext
is equal to createContext
and createContext is a method that is in React.
So I'll just go ahead and import that.
There we go.
And then we also wanna put the LocalStateProvider
in its own variable as well.
So I'll stay const LocalStateProvider
is equal to LocalStateContext dot
and look, you can see there's a Provider
and a Consumer, so we want the Provider here.
This variable is not necessary
because you can just use that as a tag
but people get confused when there's dots inside of a tag.
So I like to put it in its own variable.
Next up, what we wanna do is to make a function
called CartStateProvider
that takes in one prop, which is children.
And then inside of here,
we're going to say this is our own custom provider.
We will store data,
which is state
and functionality, like updaters in here
and anyone can access it
via the consumer.
So let's do a really simple value here.
We'll just say const cartOpen is equal to true.
Right?
And then from this CartStateProvider,
we'll return our LocalStateProvider
and in the middle of that, you simply just put children.
Now, here is how you take data
and sort of open it up to the world
so other people can consume it.
We say value is equal to,
and any value that gets passed to your provider here
will then be accessible anywhere else in your application.
So you could pass just like a straight up number here
if you wanted but if you need to pass multiple things,
you have to pass an object.
So double set of curly brackets here.
And we wanna pass the cartOpen variable
that we have created.
Finally, what we'll do is you export the CartStateProvider
and we'll have to add a couple more things.
That's the very basic of creating a provider.
Now, what you do with this provider
is you stick somewhere in a high level
of your application and most likely,
that's gonna be in your _app.js
or it's gonna be in your like page.js.
Likely we'll put it in our app.js
and the reason we do that
is so that this data will persist
from page to page without resetting itself
every time we change the page.
So look, we already have a provider in here
and that's the ApolloProvider, right?
Because the data for Apollo lives at a very high level.
So we wanna go ahead and add in our own provider as well.
So you can put it inside or above.
It doesn't matter in this case
but we're gonna go ahead and say CartStateProvider.
So we wrap it and then go ahead
and import that sucker.
There we go.
Now, I believe if we open up our Dev Tools here for React,
we should see, there we go, CartStateProvider.
It doesn't actually show us that data just yet
but if we wanna be able to access that data,
we will write a custom hook.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
We'll go back to our cartState here
and we'll make a custom hook for accessing the cart.
So make a custom hook for accessing the cart local state.
This'll say function useCart
and this is gonna be a very, very simple hook.
Basically what we do is we say const all
is equal to useContext LocalStateContext
and then we return all.
So what just happened there?
Well, useContext is,
we need to make sure we're importing that,
there we go.
useContext is the consumer end of it.
Remember, we have our provider and we have our consumer.
We use a consumer here
to access the local state
and the reason why we put this into its own custom hook
is simply so that when you want to be able
to access the cart data,
you don't have to both import useContext
and the context itself,
we can simply just use this nice little hook
and it will internally access these values for us,
which is really slick.
So this cart here, now we can go ahead
and export that useCart value.
Now we can go anywhere in our application
and get access to that data.
So let's go back into our cart here.
And right below useUser, we'll say const,
just call it data is equal to useCart.
Boom.
And then just console.log data.
Now I refresh.
We've got a lot of consol.logs
we should probably get rid of right here
but you see, the first thing that logs
is this cartOpen is equal to true value.
So what we did is we defined our CartState here
at a very high level.
And then we can use it anywhere we want
by simply saying useCart, right?
And then we can take that data
and let's destructure it now into cartOpen.
Get rid of that console.log.
We can pass that cartOpen value to this.
And now we should be able to go in here
and just make that false.
And you see it's hidden, right?
True, it's shown, false, it closes itself.
So what we can now do
is not just expose this cartOpen variable
but we can also expose any other functions
that will change this variable from true to false.
So we don't actually wanna make this a straight up variable.
This should actually live in a piece of state.
So what we'll do is we'll get rid of that
and I'm going say const, square bracket,
cartOpen and setCartOpen
is equal to useState
and the default is gonna be false, right?
By default, the cart will be closed.
Now we need to import useState from React, good.
And we also want to expose this setCartOpen function
to our local state.
So anyone that wants
to explicitly set the cart open, totally can.
Also, you can create little helper functions, like this.
Function toggleCart.
We'll simply setCartOpen to be whatever the opposite
of the current cartOpen Boolean is.
So the bang, bang in JavaScript
will just give us the opposite of true or false.
So if a cartOpen is true, then it is false.
If it's false, it is true.
You can make another one.
Function called closeCart.
So if you wanna explicitly closeCart,
whether it's open or closed,
you just wanna make sure that it's closed,
you say setCartOpen false.
And then you can have another one, which is openCart
and that will be true.
And obviously, these are just very, very simple
but you could see how you might have a lot more logic
inside of these little helper function
that you can simply now take them
and expose them to your LocalStateProvider.
And I can go back into my cart now
and we can have a button that will close it.
So we'll say go here.
Let's say closeCart.
And we can give ourselves a little button.
I'll say right here onClick is equal to closeCart.
&times.
And I guess we need to default the cart to be open right now
'cause we don't have an open button just yet.
So let's just default that to be open.
There we go, and see there's a little button right there
and as soon as I click it,
it flips that variable and then our CSS kicks in
and close the whole thing for us.
So there's that and then we also should have a button
that will open the cart for us.
So where do we wanna open it?
Well, let's go to our nav
and right below our SignOut button,
let's just give ourselves another button
that has a type of button
and that should just say My Cart
and when somebody clicks that, we wanna open it, right?
So okay, now we're not in the cart anymore,
we're in the nav.
How do we open the cart?
Well, go up here, const openCart is equal to useCart.
Boom, now we have that functionality available anywhere.
You see how you can just use this functionality
wherever you want?
And we can link it up onClick of this button.
openCart.
Now I think I should be able to click this.
Boom, opens it.
This one, boom, closes it.
On, off, on, off.
Last thing I think we need to do is to make sure
that that default value is false
'cause we want it to be closed by default.
Good.
And then I believe there's a little bit of styling we need
to do to close this cart here.
Let's go back to our cart here and tick this button.
That button goes inside of the header
and I believe I have a CloseButton component.
Some styles for you.
Let's try to auto import that.
No, but we can import it from here.
CloseButton.
Did I type it wrong?
Yeah.
Ah, there we go.
Look at that nice little button.
Open, close, open, close.
We should, let's get rid of some of these console.logs
before we end here.
So cart.js.
Console.log, I get rid of that product.
Console.log me, let's get rid of that.
Refresh the page.
Let's go to products.js, get rid of that console.log.
Products.
Yeah, there we go.
Too much, too many console.logs.
Make sure you clean up after yourself.
Beautiful.
So that is LocalStateContext.
I really like using LocalStateContext
'cause you can store the data anywhere you want
and then be able to access it at any lower level.
See you in the next one.